YFKtest Version 0.0.10 Manual
----------------------------


1. Getting started
------------------

To start a new contest, just invoke YFKtest without any arguments on the command
line: ./yfktest . You'll be asked to select a contest definition and enter
the neccesary details, like a filename for the contest, your callsign, category
etc. After completing this form, the contest operation starts.

You may add a file ~/.yfktest (to your home directory), AND/OR you can add it to
the working directory (where you downloaded yfktest to). It can contain any or
all of the items notated on the first startup screen (the screen you see when
you each time you start yfktest.) There is also a file called
config.yfktest.sample that shows what this file could look like. 


2. Loading an existing log
--------------------------

To load an existing contest log, invoke YFKtest with the filename as the
command like argument:  ./yfktest CQWW07.yfk
The contest log will be read, user settings from the last contest are restored
and the score will be calculated. 

Alternatively a file browser can be used to select a log from the file system.
You will see this as the second screen (i.e. after you press <enter> from the
stratup or first screen) if yfktest was started without any command line
arguments.


3. Keys and functions
---------------------

Alt-w, F11  Wipe QSO. Delete callsign- and exchange fields

Alt-x       Stops CW sending immediately (like ESC) 

Alt-o or h  Quick help screen

Alt-k       Keyboard-Mode in CW

Alt-r       Rate Graph

Alt-m       Edit CW messages

F1..7       CW messages like in CT. They can be modified by Alt-m, and
INS         are written to the log file and restored when restarting the
ESC         contest.

10M..160M   Entering the desired band in the callsign-field causes YFKtest to
            QSY. **** NOTE: You can also just enter a freq. like 21075 to
	    switch to 15 meters...and so forth !

SSB, CW     Change the mode my entering SSB/CW in the callsign field. (RTTY
	    works too.)

WRITELOG    Writes the log in Cabrillo- and ADIF-Format for submission to the
            log-checker and / or import to your main logbook/LOTW etc.
            Also a summary file of the contest score is written to a file.

QUIT, EXIT  Enter this int he callsign field to end the program execution.


4. Hamlib
---------

As of version 0.0.4, CAT control of the transceiver is supported via Hamlib's
Perl bindings.

When starting a new contest, you'll be asked wheter you want to use rig
control. If so, you can select one of the transceivers supported by hamlib and
a device to which the RIG is connected. All available transceivers are saved in
the file 'hamlibrigs'. You can delete all transceivers which you are not using
from this file to reduce the number of RIGs to scroll through.

During operation, YFKtest will query the rig freqency and mode every second or
so, and update the values in the logbook. The other direction also works: If
you change the band in YFKtest (by typing for example 15M), your radio will
jump to the 15m band. You can also enter a frequency in the callsign field,
like 14025, and the radio will QSY to 14025kHz.

FYI: Debian's hamlib Perl package is still broken. YFKtest will crash if you
try to use it; either compile it yourself from the source, or uncomment the
lines which import Hamlib.pm  in yfktest.pl.


5. CW Functions
---------------

CW is realized via cwdaemon by PG4I OR winkeydaemon.pl . Cwdaemon must be up
and running and set up in order to be used by YFKtest. *** Winkeydaemon will be
setup by a dialog when running yfktest and will run the next time automagically
when you start yfktest.

The F-keys are set similarly to CT by default: (*** NOTE: These defaults can be
automagically changed by the entries in the various contest definition files
that are used by yfktest to setup a contest log.)

F1: CQ
F2: RST +/or Exchange
F3: TU $MYCALL
F4: MYCALL
F5: HISCALL
F6: NR?
F7: ?

Alt-m opens a dialog to change these messages.

Alt-k activates the Keyboard-Mode, meaning everything you type in is
immediately sent via cwdaemon or winkeydaemon.pl . Alt-K again or ESC stops it.

*changed/updated 19 June 2011 - Bob, w9ya
*changed/updated 20 June 2011 - Bob, w9ya
*changed/updated 29 Feb  2012 - Bob, w9ya
